[Music]
the one thing babies are practicing over
and over again and doing more than ever
before
is swiping and tapping touchscreens 75%
of toddlers use smartphones and tablets
daily this generation of babies is
unique because they have access to so
much technology touchscreen tablets and
smartphones are just so easy for babies
to use now some early research suggests
touch screens may be impacting
negatively on children's sleep and
attention but are there any upsides to
technology cognitive psychologists dr.
Tim Smith is investigating this burning
question we know very little because the
devices entered into the home
environment so recently we're all
figuring out how we use them and the
children are really attracted to them so
the science is actually really quite far
behind but we're trying to address that
as much as we can looking specifically
in the first few years of life we've
invited six toddlers into the baby lab
three of them are tablet users and three
of them aren't we've come up with a
series of tests designed to uncover any
differences in the way these babies are
developing so what are we testing today
- so we're specifically interested in
two dimensions of development and the
ones we're going to look at are fine
motor control which is fine movement of
fingers and hands like picking objects
up and the gross motor which is whole
body movements so crawling standing
walking hopping on one leg to see
whether these are associated with the
use of a touchscreen that may people
think is kind of locked in to us more
screening not moving much and so we're
going to do a series of standardized
assessments where we get the children to
do some tasks and we can see how far
they are on these kind of development of
these dimensions
[Music]
the concern is that young children sat
down using technology won't be as good
at coordinating their bodies what we
call gross motor skills with our hands
up on the sky we squat so first we're
going to test if they can accurately
walk along a straight line first ago are
the non tech users all of them stick to
the line easily but what about the tech
users who it's been suggested may not be
as good at this
[Music]
[Applause]
at the end of the first test there's
some reassuring news for the tech users
the variation you have for one kid so
another is similar across the two groups
and it's not that in the high tech users
are which further back in their
developments then the low tech users are
but how will the tech users compare with
the non tech users when it comes to
coordinating small movements with their
hands called fine motor skills some
drawing inking first the toddler's need
to copy a straight line now I'm going to
show you first we go this way we go this
way as a group the non tech babies meet
the expectations for their age they're
starting to get the hang of it but their
hand control needs to improve before
they can draw a straight line next we
test the tech users so interestingly she
is a tech user mm-hmm do you think
there's any correlations it wouldn't
want to extrapolate she's really good at
this
[Music]
on the whole the tech users managed to
copy the lines more accurately our final
test will assess how well the toddler's
build a tower using wooden blocks a task
that requires even more precision walks
here think you got four there
can you try another one the non-techies
is built hours with an average of five
blocks how high will the tech users go
one more well then the very high tower
Josie builds seven blocks
fine he's adding well sex
all weekend flake manages six this is
really controlled she's really drugs
that's sick and Madison reaches nine
that terms of that kind of finger
dexterity looking she's really gone the
block test suggests the tech users have
advanced fine motor skills for their age
[Music]
although this is a small sample size it
backs up Tim's previous research you
start tapping and swiping a touchscreen
encourages precision and dexterity
you